---
tags: meeting
description: E&S TIG 
---

:::info
**Live notes on hackmd**: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/S1krLW2-T

**Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---

```
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting yyyy-mm-dd
## Attendees
### Appologies
## Notes
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
```
==Actions are highlighted yellow==

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-12-04

## Attendees
- Patty Holley
- Cass Gould van Praag
- Hugo Lambert
- Kerry Lawless
- Alden Conner
- Caroline Jay

### Apologies
- Gavin?
- David Topping?

## Notes
### Introductions
- Hugo - Use of statistical and machine learning techniques in atmospheric, climate and environmental science.
- Caroline - SSI. Intersted in how people engage with technology
- Kerry - Academic engagement officer, supporting TIGs
- Alden - Turing RAM
- Cass - Turing RCM
- Alejandro - Research Fellow Turing. Strengthening environmental science through community approaches
- Emily Permain - Intirute manager, I of Data Science and AI Univers ti yfo Exeter, and Turing Academic liaison for Exeter. Engaged with the TIG from the begining.
- Emily Lines - Associate prof at Cambridge and Turing Fellow. Involved in projects with Alejandro and Scott

### TIGs
- Recent redesign to make support more sustainable
- Developing a new governance structure being developed to fit new Turing governance structure
- A lot of the groups grew organically and leads didn't have a lot of support to develope events.
- A lot of disuccsionb about how to resolve this. Willingness is important.
- Will be a minimum of 3 events per year required for each TIG
- Turing Enigma room only holds 45 people, buy hybrid. Happy to support event deliver at other insitutions
- TIGs revceive £2000 pa for catering, travel etc for events. 

### Future
- Objective for this meeting is to let you know we are here to help you and provide a platoform to discusss the future of the TIG

- Q: Hugo: is is possible to apply for more funding? Recent event at Exeter was £7000+
    - Not yet from Turing as we are in a funding transition period
    - Currently funded from Turing Core
    - Are online events acceptable to qualify?
        - Yes - monthly online community calls in Clincal AI. 
            - Emily Lines: We did use to run these with good attendance (n=80) but not good record keeping.
                - Emily P might have a record of these

- Sub interst groups:
    - E&S could become an "umbrella", with sub-interest groups
    - £2000 would be for whole group
    - Sub groups would make it easier to spread out the events (e.g. 1 per group)
    - There is a biodiversity monitoring TIG - we hope they may want to joing under the E&S umbrella when they renew in a year.
    - 

- Emily P: What events do we want to run?
    - In person is good for host organisation
    - £2000 is not enough to do anything with
        - Could be used on marketing/promotion?
        - Could be used for travel bursaries
    - There has been struggles with with governance/decision making with this group. Need a mechanism for agreement from the group? Devolved?
        - Alden: Sub-groups can decised what they want to do, rather than consent of the whole group.
        - GC is going to develop a series of external seminars - these could be rolled in. 

- Cass: Bigger GC external community call, with subgroup slots?
    - Caroline: Need to divise suvbgroups!
    - Emily L: There was a challenge structure...?!
        - "Protection, restoration and management of ecosystems to mitigate and adapt to environmental risks, including: protecting carbon sinks and stores, developing green infrastructure, enhancing ecosystem resilience & biodiversity, rewilding & reforestation."
        - "Environmental modelling (climate, land, ocean, cryosphere, biosphere, atmosphere) including digital twins, analysis of sensor data (satellite, ground-based etc) for monitoring, quantifying risks and modelling policy consequences regarding extreme weather events."
        - "Using AI/Data science to minimize emissions from industrial processes, control electricity grids, precision agriculture, revision mobility and urban planning  and  control geoengineering systems. renewables forecasting, carbon capture and storage innovation. Clean Air"
        - "Networks of sensors, provenance, open platforms, databases, best practice, advances in HPC/HTC."

    - Emily L: - Biggist problem was the logitisics of a platform for hosting community calls! Cass and Alden would set this up. 
         - Cass would handle mailing list and promotion etc.
         - Patty: Clinical AI slack is bigger than the mailing list. We have worked on this over the summer to make sure they are aligned. Sub-groups managed through slack.

- Cass: Suggestion that the subgroups could emerge form the community? This could be researched from the community?
- Subgroups are meant to be "beacons" for interest, not additional silos.
    - Above challenge structure might not be aligned to GC strategy.
    - **Risk of subgroups is siloing. Point of TIGs is to talk across silos, rather than people belonging to only one of them.**
- ==Would be really good to have support infrastrtucture written down==

- Importnant to maintain energy
- Emily: Didn't join TIG to have silo/subgroups. Want them to be new and different.
- Alden: GC schedule should give freedom to organiser to develop topic, with scaffolding

- What would bad silos look like?
    - **Want it to be broad, learn about different disciplines**
    - Looking for commonalities across the different domains - that's where the most interesting conversation happen

- ==Action: Cass and Alden set up the framework for calls and set time/dates ==
    - End of Jan for first, then Feb and March
    - ==Need to produce a guideline document for how the calls are organised and topics can be suggested etc.==
- Group agreed that they are comforable with other people from the community stepping up and running some of the calls. 
- AIUK fringe events need to be outline submitted by 22nd December - physical/hybrid at another insitution, perhaps Exeter. ==Emily to confirm what can happen at Exeter==


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2023-10-17

Actions ==highlighted==

## Present
- Kerry Lawless
- Patty Holley
- Emily Paremain
- Scott Hoskings
- Alejandro Coca-Castro

## Notes
- Patty and Kerry are able to provied some support, but really need to know who will be doing the admin
- Meeting in Manchester - Scott: we've got a numnber of people going from our group going
- Scott: we're very low on the ground in resource - could you feed back through your channels and request some resource?
- Patty: ==please look at the list and highlight things you can/can't do.==
- Patty: What is it that you want to communicate? Promote Manchcester event?
    - Scott: this will be the first of our enagement activities for UKRI funding
- ==Check that the old guidance to join slack still hold after recent slack update==
- Patty: David Topping has some ideas (sent via email) - are we all on the same page regarding organising/communicating?
    - ==Please send Patty a summary of discussion/decisions==
- Emily made a poster for the SIG. There is more resource from Turing to develop materials, comms, etc. 
- The old spreadsheet of folks who haven't signed up to the new Turing sharepoint list - needs to be deleted after a deadline (Emily will send date)
- Alejandro: Is sharepoint going to be the place we are going to organise/share our information from?
    - Patty: we have a 
- Scott: Setting up an email for the E&S Grand Challenge. Suggesting that this is merged with the interest group?
    - Patty: Don't think they are the same... It is serving the external community, whereas the GC is a Turing owned part. 
    - Scott & Cass: We need to unpack this further and make a comms strategy and process which presents the two as aligned. 
- ==Send Harry notes of this meeting and invite to this discussion group==
- Emily: At Manchester, could talk about what activities people would like to see
- Emily: AIUK?
    - Scott: There will be lots of E&S
    - Emily: Demo calls are our now. Scott: Not sure we've got a demo ready.
    - Cass: We will make sure to cover the SIG in the launch
- Patty: We have lots of international membership on our list. Bare this in mind with your organising.

- Patty's notes on [Turing sharepoint](https://eur01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/ap/w-59584e83/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fthealanturininstitute.sharepoint.com%2F%3Aw%3A%2Fs%2FenvironmentandsustainabilityIG%2FEZaTttAkggxIjTSyeutCAIIBtj-_3-7EHjDeLjol0JQgtw%3Fe%3D8iIbc9&data=05%7C01%7Ccgouldvanpraag%40turing.ac.uk%7C61dae1a7a7b3468b888808dbcf22528c%7C4395f4a7e4554f958a9f1fbaef6384f9%7C0%7C0%7C638331518538641270%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=MomhBcR0iLlKLldtZMXr%2Fcm8qyQjdFyg%2F6k0PzTbbWE%3D&reserved=0)
