---
tags: meeting
description: 
---

# Community strategy rcm 121s


:::info
**Live notes on hackmd**: https://hackmd.io/@turing-es/HyQyA10mA/edit
**Archived notes on github: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/environment-and-sustainability-gc-community/blob/main/meeting-notes/meeting-community-strategy-rcm-121s.md

:::spoiler **Expand for Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---
:::spoiler Expand for formatting template
```
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting yyyy-mm-dd
## Attendees
## Apologies
## Notes
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
```
:::

==Actions are highlighted yellow==

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2024-06-20
## Attendees
- Alejandro
- Cass
## Apologies
- none
## Notes
- Moved onto Deep Sensor for soil moisture
- Deep Sensor in mission 2
- Scivision is cross cutting but no programme allocation
- Doing soil variables before Turing (understand importance from previous work)
- Natalia is the domain expert
    - UKCEH difficult to have chats
        - Gave feedback
        - They sent data
        - But they didn't feel involved in the DS community in the EPSRC work stream
        - (Tom Anderson)
        - They weren't as familiar with the open source
        - Deep Sensor still needs a RCM
    - Easier to work togeether with Natalia, specific use case (easy win)
    - Have a timeline for easy win, if fails will move on to new variable
- Easier now Deep Sensor is a package
    - Better interoperability
- Leadership changes
    - Have been really disruptive
    - There has been no onboarding
    - Strongly Assertive in certain comments
    - Focusing too much on research, reputation of our AI
    - We don't have the budget of DeepMind
    - Partnerships with new instutions, but foregtting that there are other ways to make impact
    - Narrow focus on tradional research outputs
    - Only met him a few times
    - EDS Book: "Community projects are difficult to maintain" - Cass notes "when they aren't apprioreately resourced"
    - Things which feature in the missions are only things which can feature in the top AI conferences
    - There are other spaces that we know Turing is making impart
        - Would like to see Scott supporting us in this conversation
        - "Scott has been one of the greatest line managers I have had so far."
- We need to understand what leadership want in the short term, and help with that
    - That's how we'll show him that we have a role and our value
    - Visiting lectures don't need to be in person
- ==Is Marc familiar with reading groups?==
    - remote-sensing
    - graph neural networks 
    - nlpreadinggroups
        - They meet in-person
    - ==Cass: Collate a list of current activities==
- Onboarding
    - pathways for researcher, leader, etc.
    - [TTW](https://book.the-turing-way.org/index.html#different-pathways)
- Our vision is for a national community
    - Turing is not going to lead on everything (e.g. BAS - Turing is not going to start from scratch on BAS-type work)
        - We should be supporting those researchers with the capacity we have
            - Research Infrastrurute roles
                - REG and RAMs have been long term relationships
                - Communication between researchers in both sides
                - We are familiar with how Turing works, and what these roles do
                - We know how to grow a team with people other than just researchers
                - TPS models
                - Researchers are just focusing on research. They don't know how well it works with the infrastructure roles
                    - ==include RIR triangle in stratagy==
                - Turing does not collect data - we have to collaborate with those who do - they have that power and the domain expertise
                - Making research more user-oriented
                    - in TPS we think from the outset about how to make a research output available and useful to as many people as possible. 
                - We are never going to replace the research centres, we have to know how to work with them
- Theory of change has been another failure
    - That should have been our plan for impact




<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->


# Meeting 2024-06-19
## Attendees
- Cass
- Matt Fry

## Apologies
- none
## Notes
- Hard to know how we're (CEH) fitting into things
- Feel like we've been less involved in the discussions around the GC
- Aim was to provide some steer
- Turing Fellow, but not involved in any discussion about anything
- Was not the case before - felt like I was engaged
    - Interviewing
    - Turing fellow reviews
    - Doing my bit, helping Turing get where it want's to go
- GC discussion
    - approach was: ASG Jon didn't claim knowledge of the environmental area
    - Scott worked with the partner insitutes, becasuwe we have access to data, knowledge of the broad research requirement, capacity for data science and partnership increasing capacity/skills, linked with methods dev. Our own funding to take forward.
    - Matt as key contact, but doens't have muich knowledge of biodiveristy
    - Massive amount of activity in BD at CEH - National monitoring and capability, a lot of AI work (AMBER = CEH)
    - Rationalle for ending contract - partners weren't contributing (funding, recognition) - hope that wasn't thought of us - we were putting in leg work and research => frustrating
    - AIBDM - Matt picked up when Jon Siddorn stepped back - totally outside his interest, but did it to make things work - Post docs employed (Thjis), working well
    - The plug pulled, last minute, including support we could give to Thijs - poor way to treat him - Matt put in a lot of work to get him set up - Marc and Scott agreed they will carry on 
    - Understand that they want to wait, but seems crazy when it was well planned and people were employed
    - Worry about how people are being treated
    - CEH money pulled - Â£350k pull was. a massive impact on their finances
    - Talked about whether they should ever partner with us again - not a lot of trust
    - Projects thrown at you last minute
    - Not felt very well planned or strategic
    - Agreed an update of the collaboration agreement
    - No one else at Turing was looking after Thijs. Worried that Noushin would have no-one looking after their interest

- How would you like the GC to be operating?
    - When Mission are running - plan to allow people to discuss how they can contribute
    - What we've got to offer
    - Can't just tell us what to do
    - We have domain knowledge of what is appropriate or not appropriate
    - Scott and Marc don't know about Hydrology, they should be seeking experts
    - Emulators might not be appropriate in this area
    - Marc said he wants to focus on less generic areas, more applied, and always ways to link up
    - Needs a lot more bottum up and longer term thinking - requirements and methods in different domains, and how they can fit together (CEH work was not included)

- What would you need in place to contribute?
    - Know where want things to go
    - forums for discussion
    - More in-person meetings
        - Information disemination takes longer
    - Not just Matt as Turing lead (he doesn't know about diversity) - but he knows about what else goes on at CEH, so can connect people
    - Biodiversity - included time for David Roy and others to be involved, and they were never asked
    - Haven't been invited to previous researcher meetings - have been now
    - Marc's short update meeting - useful to get his thoughts, but needs to be more discussion
- Biodiversity work - said going to get someone else in to lead it - suprised that they can advertise it with a blank slate
    - Little need for "short to medium term forcasting" in biodiversity - little need for that. It's not like wind generation or flodding. It's about longer term change and what the drivers are. 
        - If they want to have some direction on that before they put it out, they should involve some people
        - Thrashing out ideas - lose outline in order to decide the type of advert - have a discussion with partners.
- How do we decide the 4th mission?
    - Lots that CEH do in flooding, drought prediction
        - methods wise, would be interesting to think about how forecasting applies to hydrology
    - Not adverse to a top down approach if you do it in the right way
        - Defined priorities aligned to other funding
        - National scale policy requirements
        - Where do we want to focus our efforts, methods wise
        - What else can we build on at Turing for best impact, what body of work could we build on?
        - If we decide Net Zero is the opportunity, invote us in to have discssion to take forward opportunities which are currently being developed.

### What is the purpose of community?
- Change of approach came through at the same time as the QQR
    - QQR said Turing needs to be more of a place which hosts community, not research projects. Feels like it's not going that way
- CEH is National Capability - we're supposed to support research
    - We've got researchers "in competition" with universities, and providing national capability - we tread that line
        - Increasingly going down support route
        - Hard for people to know that you've got the knowledge to do this properly unless people believe you're at the cutting edge
    - What does UK-AI community need from Turing?
        - Providing fora for people to get together
        - Brokering AI methods 
- All the TTW stuff gets really well seen
    - CEH was looking at AI strategy - felt they should be taking this approach
        - Conviening that community
        - Developing generic methods fits, but is very hard to do
- Linking up with NERC investments in infrastructure
    - Help inform NERC in how to develop it's data in ways which help community
        - But these things are less sexy or have less massive research impact
- CEH has got good links with government
    - Didn't hear 
    - DEFRA has a huge range of means around producing biodiversity metrics
        - 25 year envronment plan
        - Waht could we do to support UK environmental progrtess
        - Understand where they are struggling, and where we have opportunities to support them.
            - Research and operational requirements


## Email follow-up
- "It would really help if there were some clear descriptions of what Turing can offer around REG time, RAM time, RCM, etc. and what the conditions are (X weeks notice, at least X%FTE). There need to be clear intentions to link across programmes and therefore incentives to do it."
    - ==Support for RCM capacity building in strategy==


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->

# Meeting 2024-06-07

## Attendees
- Cass
- Nathan Simpson (Researcher)

## Apologies
- none

## Notes
- AI4NPW 
    - Decision making was difficult
    - miro with feedback from the team with this stuff in!!!
        - ==Nathan will arrange for Cass to have access==
        - Turing REG, Researchers, PMU
    - REG refelctions exercise - snark hunt!
        - [snark hunt](https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/REG-handbook/docs/how_we_work/snark_hunts/)
            - list of all previous ones here
            - ==Nathan will chase for the one from AI4NWP==
            - Facilitated by someone from REG each time, someone not on the project
- Value of doing these exercises
    - Processes, efficiencies, impact
    - ==Cass email Nathan asking for a summary of their perceived value in REG==
        - qualitative is fine
        - some specificity
        - case study, but with no depth

- Scott is PI for Phase 2 (and Phase 1)
    - Kirstine Met Office counterpart
- AI4NWP events
    - Don't know when collaboration agreement will be signed
    - 1st July end of phase 1 event, phase 2 planning and development
        - Turing and Met Office people
        - Monica
        - REG
        - Marc D, Scott, Ben M
        - Celebration
        - Maybe at Met Office? Turing is location in meeting invite

- OCF Resources
    - [Slides](https://thealanturininstitute-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/nefremova_turing_ac_uk/EQVxKRcZAdtNjqqBgPweckoBj5Qirv0kip3HMecQrdBn7A?e=1JPay6)
    - [Baskerville form](https://hackmd.io/@phinate/baskerville-ocf)
    - This project was a finailist
        - finalists get 1 year funding
        - after 1 year all finalists will be reviewed
        - Turing is backing it as a high priority
- Pre-snark?!
    - Concerns going in
    - Project timeline ([slide 18](https://thealanturininstitute-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/personal/nefremova_turing_ac_uk/Documents/Cloud_prediction_project_overview.pptx?d=w1729710501194ddb8eaa8180fc1e724a&csf=1&web=1&e=x3IaFF)) is unreaslitic
        - May has not been achieved
        - Technical level scoping
            - Vague and not clear how the story ties together
            - Don't see how to get the goal by "doing diffuction models for 2 months"
            - No justification for time allocation
            - **Roadmap - REG should contribute**
            - Medium to short term goals to keep people focused
    - Being technically unfocued in previous proejcts
        - Spend time thinking about what to do, rather than doing
        - overlap
        - demotiviating - not contrbuting in a meaningful way to the work you're doing

### Follow-up (slack)
- "following up RE: snark hunts â I did a lil survey of REG and couldn't find any particular examples of concrete actions taken as a result (which is great, because that will help us improve our process!), but just wanted to make sure you knew I didn't forget!!"
- "there are transcripts with useful comments in them, but I think we probably need to condense things into concrete + actionable points in future"
- "I am getting multiple reports that the main benefit is more cathartic in that moment for the people who are venting about their project woes :). and folding back the lessons into team culture is more of an added bonus!"


<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->


# Meeting 2024-05-24

## Attendees
- Ruth Bower (Researcher)
- Cass

### Apologies
- none

## Notes
- Everything that's going on at Turing is hard to follow
- Adopted by UA - there are some amazing people on the team (Jen, Stuart)
    - they're not quite fitting into any GC
    - As an interdisciplinary researchers, the capacity to work in the between space is really important
- Always found it hard to "tie everything up" at Turing, even when bigger FTE
- Turing is different from academia
- Not a research seminar for everybody (whole Turing, or each GC)
    - Important opportunity for people to know what other people are doing
    - getting feedback can be risky! - This is done well at Turing with the TPS teams - not combatitive
    - See what other people are doing, where there is cross over in work
    - Done weekly, everyone does one every 2 years! Summer recess
- Leadership with fractional FTE means they aren't involved in the day-to-day
    - Lack of integration between junior and senior people
    - Conencting the community with management is disjointed
- its top down and bottom up
    - amazing people at middle levels, but who has oversite/final say
        - Lots of people working very hard but towards the same goals!
    - Shouldn't always be top down - with great power comes great 
    - Figure head should have vision and strategic goal
        - Follow the same river but allowing them to follow their own tributories
    - Consensus decision making is great, but there has to be a framework for it and a clearly definaed ultimate goal.
- Over promise had been made to the stakeholders (by leadership), and the team were getting heat for not delivering.

### Stop, start, continue
- help you feel you have a handle on it!
    - Who is in the challenge, what they are woring on, who they are, what the ultimate goals are
    - Don't know where to look for it, if it exists!
    - Marc B has a plan of where he wants it to go, but he's also not invoved in the decision making.
        - "Lots of Politics going on"
- The direction they're going in (keeping off grants) doesn't feel collaborative
    - This is how academics collabotrate!
    - Ruth and Stuart presented at Kings Public Health Seminar 
        - everyone was really excited! But we could get Turing to fund it!
    - Did get email from Donna
        - Turing isn't being open about what they want to support
        - Everyone is in stasus
        - ECRs will be worring about 
        - Colleagues at Kings would be completely baffeled by this!
            - How is Turing going to support research roles?
            - Long term core funding is great! Perminant contracts would be great
            - "If the goal of the org is reasearch and you're not applying for research grants"
- Most common question about Turing: "what do they do?!"
    - I don't know!
    - Is the Turing's role to be doing research in Data Science and AI, or pushing the boundries


- The lack of participation in grants
    - Feels very exclusive
    - Turing doesn't need other academic intiture and expertise
        - We are all made better by collaboration
        - Read it as a big, long term stop
        - Feedback from Turing: "We need to be moving beyond grants as a form of funding"
            - Turing wants to be an industry partner who doesn't work with academics

#### Community pages
- really helpful to anchor people within a community
- Understand what's going on outside the immediate project work
- In line with open science
- Why is there such secrecy?

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->